All right.
Yeah. So it's time for the.
Yeah, exactly. Thank you.
Good morning, everyone. Thank you for being here.
My name is Gabriel Samo.
I'm going to try to get the introductions over with quickly.
I work for Carnegie Mellon's cert,
which is the sort of OG cert the US government started back in the 80s after the Morris worm,
because they suddenly realized computers were going to be a thing they were going to have to care about.
The cool thing about that is I get to indulge in my paranoia and OCD in a professional capacity,
which is much, much better than it sounds, probably the way I make it sound.
I'm going to probably sit down during this presentation every once in a while when I need to,
you know, work the demo a little bit. So don't don't think that's weird.
So with all of that out of the way,
we're going to talk about self hosting and why that's important and how it impacts things like hardware and the ability to trust it.
And then further into that sort of distinctions between ASICs, application specific integrated circuits,
dedicated silicon versus programmable FPGAs and what the threat models are in the trade offs and how much you can trust each one of those
and what you're gaining and losing when you're switching between them.
And then next will be a demo of what probably is the slowest,
most memory constrained computer that's capable of running Fedora Linux that you've seen recently.
It will be on a 50 megahertz rocket chip CPU, soft core CPU running on an FPGA.
It's going to have 512 megs of RAM in this particular incarnation.
It is using, like I said, rocket chip and light X on an FPGA with free open tool chains, YOSys, Trellis, and XPNR
being used to build a bit stream for the FPGA.
And then this computer, when it runs Fedora, you can install YOSys, Trellis, and XPNR on the computer that was built using those tools
and run those tools on the computer to rebuild bit stream for its own motherboard.
So it's basically like a self-contained, self-hosting thing, which is really exciting.
So let's start with this whole idea of self-hosting.
Most of you are probably familiar with what that means.
The joke is, well, no, it's not me hosting my own content on Google Drive or somewhere in the cloud,
but rather it's a term of art in the field of compiler design,
and it means a compiler is written in its own language, and it can compile its own sources.
And then there's a related concept of bootstrapping, which is basically kind of, well,
you have a self-hosting compiler that built its own sources, both chicken and egg, which one was there first.
Well, there had to be a third-party trusted compiler that was originally used to build the first binary of our own compiler
before we could rebuild it.
And at some point, we reached stability where the next iteration of the binary we build out of the sources
isn't significantly different from the one we already used,
and that basically means we've achieved self-hosting.
And the process for that is called bootstrapping.
And one interesting thing about self-hosting compilers is that they suffer from this attack that Ken Thompson pointed out,
Ken Thompson being one of the designers of the Unix operating system among many other glorious achievements.
He pointed out that a compromised binary of a self-hosting compiler could be created that attacks clean,
otherwise sort of benign trustworthy source code and builds malicious binaries,
one being of the scenario he described was the attack against the login program,
which if you build a login program, it'll have a backdoor root password that'll allow somebody to log in
without knowing the actual system root password.
The other thing this malicious behavior does is it inserts itself into any subsequent iterations
when it detects that the compiler's own sources are being built using it.
So it's a self-perpetuating attack that isn't actually present in the source code.
And the only way to get rid of that would be to reboot strap the entire compiler
because presumably we do trust the sources and the sources are clean
and there's no malicious behavior specified in the code itself.
And one way to not necessarily get rid of the problem but to point out
or to test whether we have been subjected to one of these attacks
is David A. Wheeler's PhD dissertation called Diverse Double Compilation.
And in the example here, we'll be using CC as our suspect compiler
and TC as the third-party compiler, and it's not necessarily T for trusted, it's T for third-party.
And the heuristic here is that we pick the third-party compiler
in a way that gives us a high degree of confidence that it is not in collusion with the suspect compiler.
So the people who put it out aren't the same group thing,
maybe GCC on one hand and MSVC Microsoft on the other or something like very diverse.
That's where the word diversity comes from.
The way this works is that if we compile the sources of CC
with both our own sort of suspect binary and with the third-party binary,
if everyone's innocent and no one's trying to screw us over,
what should happen is we should be obtaining binaries reflecting the sources of CC
that are functionally identical because these are diverse different compilers.
They would produce different code, like the code generation would be different.
So the binaries aren't bit by bit identical,
but they should be doing the same thing because they're implementing the same source code.
And then if that is true, then the next move would be to take the sources to CC again
and rebuild them with our two intermediate compilers that we obtained.
And if you control for the initial conditions,
if you have the same initial condition, same random number generator seed and everything,
and identical input pumped into functionally identical binaries,
the result should be bit by bit identical.
And if that's true, then we can breathe a sigh of relief and say,
okay, we are very unlikely to be subject to a trusting trust attack.
And that degree of confidence is sort of equivalent to our heuristic ability
to pick a third party compiler that isn't in collusion with our suspect compiler.
And by the way, the highlighted box on the bottom here is basically the process
of bootstrapping CC using the third party TC compiler.
So back to self-hosting.
If you have a self-hosting compiler and source code to everything,
the binary of the compiler, when it operates, when it runs,
it runs on top of, I don't know, a C library and the kernel
and basically a software stack.
It's an application on top of that,
but it's an application that can compile all of the things it needs to run itself.
And if you have source to everything and you've compiled everything from sources
that you otherwise trust, then you have a self-hosting software stack
built around your compiler.
And sort of the applications are bonus,
all the stuff you actually want to use the computer for.
If you build that from source, but the stack of software
with the C compiler at the top, systems, libraries, kernel,
and whatever you have underneath that for the software
is a self-hosting software stack.
And examples of that, we have in the wild, there's the Linux ecosystem,
there's the BSD ecosystem.
Those are all sort of compliant to this with this idea.
Now, there's kind of a holy war going on with whether hardware
will respect your freedom or not.
And some people are claiming that hardware should be completely immutable
and never upgradable with firmware or anything like that
in order for it to be completely respecting of your freedom
and no binary blobs.
And different people say, well, I mean, you may actually be able to
put free firmware blobs on your proprietary
firmware blob-enabled hardware of today
if you just reverse-engineer it and so on.
But anyway, the idea is in order to trust the computer,
it's not enough to just have a self-hosting software stack.
We need to understand what hardware does.
And hardware, as we've learned in recent years, isn't really hard at all.
It's very, very mushy, very complicated.
It does all sorts of things that scare us,
and we need to kind of take a closer look at it.
And so, software talks to an instruction set architecture
and a bunch of registers that are mapped somehow.
And that's basically where software talks to the hardware.
That's the demark here.
And then there's all sorts of layers underneath, microarchitecture,
whatever, it all ends up with this register transfer level,
which is combinational and sequential logic,
basically a bunch of gates, a bunch of flip-flops, a clock, and so on.
And it's not my word for it.
It's just a word I picked up from the wild.
I don't know exactly who to attribute this to,
but these layers of the hardware stack are typically referred to as gateware.
And it's the stuff you write in something like Verilog or VHDL
or MiGen or Chisel and so on.
And then obviously all of this has to run on actual physical hardware
which could be dedicated circuits, application-specific,
integrated circuits or optimized silicon or programmable FPGAs.
And so, if we have free software tool chains for HDL compilers,
for making gateware out of sources, which we do thanks to the group
who put out YOSIS, Claire Wolf, and the gate cat who made the trellis
and the next PNR, place and route software.
So anyway, if we have those things, those are software that can be built
by the self-hosting C compiler, which can compile the software stack.
Now, this thing can take source code, HDL sources, and build all the layers
of gateware which then support all the operation of the software stack.
So you have a self-hosting software plus gateware stack.
Unfortunately, that leaves for now out the actual physical layer,
the silicon versus the FPGA.
So this is as far down the layers of abstraction we can go with self-hosting
that I'm personally currently aware of.
And so, being a relative late comer to developing hardware,
I'm a software person, have been my entire career,
took a couple classes at the university where I work,
learned Verilog, learned a bit of digital design,
and it surprised me to realize that essentially designing gateware
is sitting down in front of a development environment and writing a program
in some kind of functional slash declarative syntax like Verilog and VHDL.
You basically write a program and then hit the compile button
and it compiles your code into ever more elaborate basically graph net list
of building blocks and eventually gates and then you have a choice
of building a binary blob which is bitstream for the FPGA
and it's basically a binary blob just like a binary blob comes out
of an actual program you write for software.
The difference being software will tell some CPU a sequence of steps
of what to do whereas bitstream will tell an FPGA what to be.
It sits there and it acts out the configuration that is being compiled
into a binary blob.
But other than that, it kind of looks like software development to me
because I probably am pissing off a bunch of people for saying that.
Now, the interesting thing is if you don't want the FPGA bitstream
but rather would like optimized silicon then you're compiling,
further elaborating your gates and your RTL into a bunch of graph,
a very complicated graph of transistors which then get laid out
and made into masks and there is an entire very, very expensive,
very, very involved process of actually etching this into,
carving it into stone so to speak.
We have the saying of, well, is it the dog that wags the tail or is it
the tail that wags the dog?
Well, in terms of that, making actual silicon is one stage in a compilation
pipeline like a software development compilation pipeline just like
a five megaton tail is wagging a tiny little chihuahua dog basically.
But if you look at it from a software guy's perspective,
it's just one stage of the compilation pipeline.
Just kind of figure it out. I'll share that with you.
So now, we have the option of doing a CPU and this slide is specifically
from the perspective of we're going to make a CPU and the choices are
putting a CPU in dedicated silicon versus putting a CPU in an FPGA.
With the dedicated silicon obviously you have high performance,
low lower area, high clock speeds.
The problem with that is there is, from the perspective of the hardware
attack surface, one thing we don't control is the foundry,
the chip foundry where we're sending those masks to be made.
And documented attacks that have been done, so the University of Michigan
group had this A2 Trojan at the IEEE security and privacy like three,
four years ago. And what they did was if you have access to these masks,
then you can tell where things are and you can add maybe these things have
billions of transistors, but if you carefully understand how this whole
thing works, you can put in 20 transistors in the capacitor.
And the transistors are wired such that when the CPU, because this is a CPU
remember, is executing a sequence of unprivileged instructions depending on
how you wired those transistors in, they incrementally charge the capacitor
a little bit at a time until at the end of the sequence the charge capacitor
will flip a bit in the register. And if that register is your CPU
privilege flag as in ring or whatever, your kernel mode versus user mode,
then you have a baked into silicon privilege escalation vulnerability that
relies not at all on any vulnerabilities in software. So if you theoretically
had perfect software, you'd still be able to basically do a buffer,
I mean not a buffer overflow, a privilege escalation attack on a CPU that's
been compromised like that. As opposed to FPGAs, which you're asking
the foundry, the manufacturing facility to make you a regular grid of basic
configurable blocks. It kind of looks like snap circuits for grown-up
engineers, you know. And most importantly, the foundry has absolutely
no idea what this FPGA will be used for. And if it's ever going to be used
for a CPU where on this regular grid of identical blocks will the register
be that holds the crown jewels to the privilege ring flags or anything like
that. So pre-gaming an attack in this scenario is qualitatively harder for
the hardware manufacturing facility because they don't know what you're
going to be using it for and where your things are going to be put on it by the
place and route software. So the price you pay for not letting them know where
your privilege flag is going to be by using soft core CPUs is basically
performance, a huge performance loss. But that's essentially the trade-off.
So if we've decided to use FPGAs because we're paranoid and we're trying to
deny the silicon foundry knowledge of what we're going to be doing, the rest
of the attack surface is, you know, if we don't trust our HDL toolchain, but we
do because it's, you know, part of the self-hosting stack and we have source
code do it. And then there could be design defects like bugs in the sources
to the CPU. Kind of like, I don't know, Spectre and Meltdown. And you'll
never know whether those are intentional or just somebody getting away with like
trying to optimize things, plausible deniability all the way down. But if you
have source code do everything, you can always just edit the source code and
rebuild things and you have a self-hosting environment which will allow you
to rebuild every part of it as necessary. Which is what brings me to this slide,
you know, freedom and independence from any sort of black box closed non-free
dependencies. And you can trust the computer that runs as a self-hosting
gateway plus software stack to the same extent you can trust the cumulative set
of source code. Now, a lot of people are going to say, well, no one ever reads
that much source code and it's impossible to understand. I agree. I don't
want to read any of those sources myself, but the cool thing about it is if I ever,
down the road, have a question about, hey, this computer did something weird,
I could do a vertical dive into the software layers, the RTL, the source codes
to the gateway, the source code to the whatever it does weird, I can actually
have enough brain power to do one sort of debugging session through it. But in
order for me to be able to do that, I need to have source code to everything
and with the knowledge that I'm not going to read most of it. So that's kind of
my perspective on this, my ability to trust my own computer. I hope I'm doing
okay with time. Are we talking about 15 minutes here?
Twenty minutes in. Perfect. All right. So I am going to now show you a Fedora
capable computer built on this Lambda concept board. So if you download the
PDF from the conference site, the links are clickable. So it'll take you to the
place where I ordered it from. It's a commercially available board. Hopefully
they'll make more because it was solved out the last time I checked. It uses
Litex and the rocket chip CPU. It uses YOSys, Charleston, and XPNR for the
tool chain, OpenSBI for the firmware. And then I downloaded the latest
incarnation based on Rawhide 37 of Fedora's RISC-5 64-bit port. Thank you,
David. He's the guy, you know, like the one-man show behind building most of
this stuff and it's really, really appreciated. If you have Bitstream, well,
if you have Litex and all its dependency installed, and there's going to be a link
in the slide deck to more detailed build instructions for this. But it's pretty
much a stock Litex build. You install Litex according to all the recipes that
are available online and then you run this command line which says, we're going
to build it with the rocket chip, can't highlight, with the rocket chip CPU, 50
megahertz, I want Ethernet, I want SD card support, I want to use Flow 3
optimization to the YOSys component of the tool chain, I want strict timing, and
I want the register map saved to a CSV file. Now, this is all a little bit
clunky still at this point because you're going to have to kind of manually build
the device tree table for it. Litex doesn't build a device tree table for
rocket chip-based designs automatically and it's one of the things on my to-do
list to teach you how to do that. But once you have the generic sort of
register map and you know what the addresses are for all the devices,
we have to add like a chosen boot args line which contains the kernel command
line for the booting Fedora. And the black font is sort of the standard cut
and paste from what Fedora already uses, modulo this root which is going to be
on the SD card. The other thing we need to do is set enforcing to zero because
once we've R-synced stuff from one image to the SD card, the labels are all wrong
and you know, SELinux is going to scream at us. So we set enforcing to zero and
then the default is to boot into graphical mode. So we have to tell it to
use like run level three equivalent which is the multi-user target in system D.
And then last but not least, system D is really, really impatient because it's
used to running on, I don't know, five gigahertz, you know, 20 core systems.
This thing is 50 megahertz so system D will give up on starting services way
before the thing actually has a chance to actually start all that stuff. So we
need to increase the system D timeout. Now enforcing we can get rid of like it
takes about a day to relabel the whole SD card on the 50 megahertz system but then
you can get rid of this part of the command line because it'll actually work
properly with SELinux. And you can set this as the default so then you can get
multi-user target but this should stay because it affects both the init R D
version of system D and the one that actually boots from the real root. Now
once we have a device tree blob ready to go we make a binary out of it and then
we build open SBI, that's another source stock, you get open SBI to just build
itself using a built-in DTB right now. So the other thing that Litex should
eventually be made to do is to build a DTB into the actual bit stream and then
have open SBI just kind of take that like it does for most normal computers.
For now we just kind of have to build a binary bit stream thing into the open
SBI blob. And then we put that on the first, you know, the first partition of
the SD card has to be VFAT and there has to be a boot.json file which lists the
open SBI blob and its load address which is the very first address in memory and
then the Linux kernel image and the init R D image. And the Linux kernel image
and the init R D image just come from Fedora or would normally but I had to do
some customizations. The stock Fedora kernel has two problems that I'm dealing
with right now. One of them is it lacks UART IRQ support for the Litex UART.
And so that stuff is kind of making its way right now. It's somewhere in Greg
Age's TTYNext tree and it's been accepted for upstream but hasn't made it
into mainline yet. The other thing is between the port, the RISC-V Fedora port
based on Fedora 33 which was the previous kind of major release of the
RISC-V port of Fedora and the current one, a bunch of config flags have been
turned on additionally in the stock Fedora kernel configuration. And I found
two but I'm working on finding a third one which if enabled will cause the
kernel to crash when it boots on this machine, on this computer. And either
David will tell me well we can get rid of not actually enabling this one because
it was enabled by mistake or if it has to be enabled then I either have to find a
percolating patch for some kernel bug that's already been found or I have to
find it and submit a patch myself. But anyway that's kind of work in progress.
Right now I've been building a custom kernel and I'm doing that on RISC-V
Fedora machine running on QMU for reasons of speed and you know I need
something to actually build the kernel before I can boot this machine for the
first time. And then down here at the bottom there's a URL clickable link
with all of this but in much more detail that you can actually reproduce.
Alright well perfect because now I'm going to sit down and actually try to
work this demo for you guys. I recorded an ASCIIcast of my terminal.
Let me try to maximize this.
I'm splitting my screen and I'm sending the bit stream with open OCD so this is
the ECP5 bit stream that I built. I'm sending it to the ECPIX5 Lambda concept
board. This is Litex. This is basically where I type SD card boot.
I'm going to try to zoom in so you can actually read the screen and see what
it's doing. So it's starting to boot.
Loaded boot JSON is loading the RAM disk and if I fast forward it's going to
load the actual kernel image and then it's going to start booting and this is
what it looks like. It takes a very long time this whole video if you have time
to watch it at normal speed this four hours long.
Well it's a 50 megahertz computer what do you want? So anyway let's see.
If I fast forward to this creatively you'll see system D actually booting
here and a bunch of OK services being started.
Let's see. At some point we failed to mount what? VAR, lib, NFS, whatever but we
don't care about NFS on this computer. Oh it also failed to start firewall D.
But other than that it seems to be pretty happy. And at some point it starts
the console. And let me pause this again. Let's zoom in properly so you guys
can see what it looks like. So this is a boot prompt for Fedora in text mode.
If you don't have IRQ support in your UART it would trip over itself get TTY
would basically just kind of interrupt itself before it's serviced its own soft
interrupt so it needs actual IRQ support in order to not crash when it starts.
The other cool thing about this is it actually does work on the network.
If I nmap my you know from my normal machine for Fedora it'll actually find this.
So 192.168.2.229 on my home network was where this Fedora machine actually grabbed
the DHCP lease and talked to DNS mask and everything.
My attempt to log into this machine took about 20-30 minutes because here's the
cool thing right you type login and it starts you know the login program and
then it starts bash right so in order for all of that to work it needs to be
loaded into RAM and linked against GLibc and all that stuff and that takes a
little longer than the timeout the first couple of times until it's actually
managed to pull enough of it into RAM and actually let you log in.
So there's a couple of attempts and I'm trying to log in both at the console
in this window and over SSH and see here I actually just succeeded because it
says hey last login something something that means I'm actually going to get a
shell eventually and once I do get a shell I can start you know exploring cat
proc CPU info looks like this proc interrupts looks like that I have the
UART I have Ethernet zero I have my SD card and this is part of the CPU the
slash boot dot JSON this is the file that told the Litex BIOS what to load
into memory what else do I have here this is the actual source I mean I just
copied it over to the SD card so this is the this is the source to the device
tree file and there's my boot Args console all the stuff we talked about on
the previous slides this is the CPU node okay let's see what else is going on
here my devices but all of this I had to edit by hand and I'm going to I promise
I'm going to teach Litex I'm going to submit a patch to make it build generate
this programmatically so that I don't have to like modify the device tree file
every time I rebuild my thing yeah so long story short I'm going to fast
forward over a lot of this stuff once I'm able to log in from everywhere the
next thing is system D network or resolve D is not enjoying itself on this
machine so I had to disable it and stop it and add 8 8 8 8 and 8 8 4 4 to an
actual hard coded at C resolve that conf at that point my DNS resolution
started working crony also started working because it could resolve like
Fedora NTP whatever the alias thing it has in its config file and once I have
all of this ready to go I type DNF dash Y install Python 3 me gen YOSIS trellis
next B and R and it's doing it really slowly but if you have patience or can
fast forward which is really cool it's a cool feature of ASCII how do you
pronounce that ASCII at ASCI I and EMA ASCII cinema I don't know but you guys
know what I'm talking about right like you can record your anyway this is
basically what I used here and so I don't know we're like 142 minutes into
this entire thing and it's installing RPMs well we'll get to that we're
we are going to address that elephant in this room definitely well so here's
here's the thing right so basically it takes about an hour and plus to install
all the RPMs but then let me pause this thing at some point what I did to
demonstrate the fact that it can actually self host is I had a very simple
Verilog blinky which just makes a counter out of the ECP 5 boards LEDs and
and if you if I zoom in here essentially this is what it does it has a counter
and the red the you know LED zero red LED one green LED to blue and LED 3 red
that's basically bits 27 26 25 and 24 of the counter and it kind of goes at like
you know a couple of seconds you can actually see it blink and that's the
Verilog and I'm running actually here we go like the build of this here's the I
have a shell script I'm running it manually so YOSIS is the first thing
that creates a JSON file next BNR will do the placement route and then ECP pack
will actually take what next BNR produces and spit out an SDF file which
can shove at the actual board on which this computer currently runs and so I
did that and so in this other window I have top running and so YOSIS is using
oh I don't know let's see if I keep going percent CPU where is percent CPU
right here so it uses about 80% of the CPU if I don't know man DB whatever
cron start some process that drops down to 50% because now it's splitting it
with like whatever you know thing so I had to kill those while this was running
just to keep it you know on task and making progress yeah run YOSIS run next
BNR this is pretty much if you've run next BNR ever before you'll recognize
the output it succeeds then we do ECP pack to generate the SDF file and once
that is over I did a MD 5 sum of the top SDF file so that when we run the
following demo or when I show you pushing this thing to the actual board
when it starts to blink here's the check some of the SDF file BAE 0 yada yada
6 1 8 alright so at this point the job is done it took I don't know 50 minutes
to build the bitstream and if I pause this perfect if I pause this creatively
here I am doing an MD 5 sub sum of the top SDF file and you'll see BAE 0 D yada
yada 6 1 8 that is actually the thing I built on fedora running on this board
and if I let it run and it goes then you'll see right now it's like kind of
okay so here it started blinking and it blinks exactly like the Verilog I showed
you earlier says it should so I was capable of building bitstream for this
board on fedora running on this board and with that we're going back to the
tail end of the slide deck and we're talking about right so building the
blinky on my Intel laptop takes what 10 seconds or less so 10 seconds dot dot
dot 90 minutes building bitstream for actual risk five rocket chip light X
takes half an hour dot dot dot whatever that translates into you'd be here a
very very very long time if you waited for this thing to really self host itself
and rebuild its own bitstream it can do it we've we've established that it's the
qualitative leap has been done it's just a quantitative problem now we to make
this thing faster right and so the immediate thing is to figure out the
Linux config stuff teach light X how to be more you know civilized about
booting and generating device trees and working maybe with u-boot or something
and actually have a standardized boot process light SEDA is like they have a
SEDA core which works on some FPGAs but currently not yet on the on the ECP on
the CP5 in the medium term right in order to make this thing a little faster
right on my VC 707 board I can get eight cores running at the hundred and a
hundred fifty megahertz so basically twice or three times as fast and eight
times as many cores as I can fit on a lattice chip a problem is if I do that
it's not self hosting because I need Vivado to pull that off I need the
Xilinx proprietary tools so whatever I can do to encourage or join or whatever
in the future the effort to target the Xilinx large Xilinx not just any
Xilinx chips large Xilinx chips with complete free tool chains count me in
let me know tell me what I need to do you know I don't have a lot of money but
I have a lot of determination I'm a very stubborn individual all right well thank
you I'll think that as a compliment no for real I got that we could put in
fancier IP blocks if it's a larger FPGA maybe we can get away with some kind of
video card like thing or maybe be a PCI master so we can plug video cards or
other cards into this computer and then in the long science fiction term I mean
what I'm doing right now is I'm taking a class or a sequence of classes that
that culminate in taping out an actual ASIC at Carnegie Mellon which I'm doing
in my spare time I want to understand how ASIC fabrication works because I
want to have something useful that I can say about it right now it's just all
high-level oh yeah you know you can't trust the fab but I have no idea what
goes on in one of those things and I want to know what goes on in one of
those things and then there's been a kid who probably just graduated from their
electrical computer engineering department Sam Zilouf was his name but
he was famous before he joined CMU because he did some silicon transistor
stuff on integrated circuits in his own garage probably would like 70s
technology or whatnot but it's a start right and then maybe in the future it
would be really cool if I lived long enough to see some kind of you know
nano assembler kind of like a 3d printer in my house that maybe costs as much or
less than then sort of like a the average American single family detached
home you know or something because right now the way chip fabrication works
they're like you can't you can count them on one hand how many actual places
are that make these things right and then obviously they have the attention
of important people and nation-state actors and all this stuff it would be
nice if we could democratize that a little bit more so that's kind of you
know if I live long enough to see that I've either lived a very long life or
you know something cool happened in my lifetime either way I win and with that
thank you time for questions or do we do that off okay awesome sweet thank you